Concept tables (#9718)
PrefectHQ/prefect: docs/concepts/index.md

# Explore Prefect concepts

## Develop

| Keyword                                     | Description                                                                                                                                                                        |
| ------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | __[Flows](/concepts/flows)__                       | The most basic Prefect objects.                                                                                                                                                    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| __[Flows](/concepts/flows)__                       | A Prefect workflow, modeled as a Python function.                                                                                                                                               |
```

| __[Tasks](/concepts/tasks)__                       | Discrete units of work in a Prefect workflow.                                                                               |
| __[Results](/concepts/results)__                   | The data returned by a flow or a task.                                                                                      |

> | __[Artifacts](/concepts/artifacts)__               | Persisted outputs for human viewing such as tables or links.                                                                |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| __[Artifacts](/concepts/artifacts)__               | Formatted outputs rendered in the Prefect UI, such as markdown, tables, or links.                                                                |
```

Reviewer 2: @gabcoyne It would be cool to get this PR into the release today. Thoughts on the above? 👽

> | __[States](/concepts/states)__                     | Contain information about the status of a particular task run or flow run.                                                                                                         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| __[States](/concepts/states)__                     | The status of a particular task run or flow run.                                                                                                         |
```

| __[Runtime Context](runtime-context.md)__   | Information about the current flow or task run that you can refer to in your code.        |
| __[Profiles & Configuration](settings.md)__ | Settings you can use to interact with Prefect Cloud and a Prefect server.                                                                                                                                               |
| __[Blocks](blocks.md)__                     | Prefect primitives that enable the storage of configuration and provide a UI interface.                                       |
| __[Variables](variables.md)__               | Named, mutable string values, much like environment variables. |

## Deploy
| Keyword                                           | Description                                                                                           |
| ------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| __[Deployments](deployments.md)__                 | A server-side concept that encapsulates a flow, allowing it to be scheduled and triggered via API. |

> | __[Projects](projects.md)__                       | Aminimally opinionated set of files that describe how to prepare one or more flow deployments.    |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| __[Projects](projects.md)__                       | A minimally opinionated set of files that describe how to prepare one or more flow deployments.    |
```

# Explore Prefect concepts

## Develop

| Keyword                                     | Description                                                                                                                                                                        |
| ------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | __[Flows](flows.md)__                       | The most basic Prefect object                                                                                                                                                      |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| __[Flows](flows.md)__                       | The most basic Prefect objects.                                                                                                                                                      |
```

> | __[Tasks](tasks.md)__                       | Discrete units of work in a Prefect workflow                                                                                                                                       |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| __[Tasks](tasks.md)__                       | Discrete units of work in a Prefect workflow.                                                                                                                                      |
```

> | __[Results](results.md)__                   | represent the data returned by a flow or a task                                                                                                                                    |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| __[Results](results.md)__                   | The data returned by a flow or a task.                                                                                                                                   |
```

> | __[Artifacts](artifacts.md)__               | are persisted outputs such as tables, files, or links                                                                                                                              |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| __[Artifacts](artifacts.md)__               | Persisted outputs for human viewing such as tables or links.                                                                                                                              |
```

Reviewer 2: @discdiver I don't know why but "persisted outputs for human viewing" made me laugh 😄 

Thoughts on 
"Formatted outputs rendered in the Prefect UI, such as markdown, tables, or links."
?

> | __[States](states.md)__                     | are rich objects that contain information about the status of a particular task run or flow run                                                                                    |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| __[States](states.md)__                     | Contain information about the status of a particular task run or flow run.                                                                                    |
```

> | __[Task Runners](task-runners.md)__         | enable you to engage specific executors for Prefect tasks, such as for concurrent, parallel, or distributed execution of tasks                                                     |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| __[Task Runners](task-runners.md)__         | Enable you to engage specific executors for Prefect tasks, such as concurrent, parallel, or distributed execution of tasks.                                                    |
```

> | __[Runtime Context](runtime-context.md)__   | Prefect tracks information about the current flow or task run with a run context                                                                                                   |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| __[Runtime Context](runtime-context.md)__   | Information about the current flow or task run that you can refer to in your code.        |
```

> | __[Profiles & Configuration](settings.md)__ | Prefect settings and configuration                                                                                                                                                 |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| __[Profiles & Configuration](settings.md)__ | Settings you can use to interact with Prefect Cloud and a Prefect server.                                                                                                                                               |
```

> | __[Blocks](blocks.md)__                     | Blocks are a primitive within Prefect that enable the storage of configuration and provide an interface for interacting with external systems                                      |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| __[Blocks](blocks.md)__                     | Prefect primitives that enable the storage of configuration and provide a UI interface.                                       |
```

> | __[Variables](variables.md)__               | Variables enable you to store and reuse non-sensitive bits of data, such as configuration information. Variables are named, mutable string values, much like environment variables |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| __[Variables](variables.md)__               | Named, mutable string values, much like environment variables. |
```

## Deploy
| Keyword                                           | Description                                                                                              |
| ------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | __[Deployments](deployments.md)__                 | are a server-side concept that encapsulates a flow, allowing it to be scheduled and triggered via API    |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| __[Deployments](deployments.md)__                 | A server-side concept that encapsulates a flow, allowing it to be scheduled and triggered via API.   |
```

> | __[Projects](projects.md)__                       | are a minimally opinionated set of files that describe how to prepare one or more flow deployments       |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| __[Projects](projects.md)__                       | A minimally opinionated set of files that describe how to prepare one or more flow deployments.       |
```

> | __[Work Pools, Workers & Agents](work-pools.md)__ | bridge the Prefect orchestration environment with your execution environment                             |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| __[Work Pools, Workers & Agents](work-pools.md)__ | Bridge the Prefect orchestration environment and your execution environment.                            |
```

> | __[Storage](storage.md)__                         | lets you configure how flow code for deployments is persisted and retrieved by Prefect agents            |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| __[Storage](storage.md)__                         | Lets you configure how flow code for deployments is persisted and retrieved by Prefect agents.            |
```

> | __[Filesystems](filesystems.md)__                 | are [Blocks](blocks.md) that allow you to read and write data from paths                                 |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| __[Filesystems](filesystems.md)__                 | [Blocks](/concepts/blocks/) that allow you to read and write data from paths.                                |
```

> | __[Infrastructure](infrastructure.md)__           | are [Blocks](blocks.md) which specify infrastructure for flow runs created by the deployment at runtime. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| __[Infrastructure](infrastructure.md)__           | [Blocks](blocks.md) that specify infrastructure for flow runs created by the deployment. |
```

> | __[Schedules](schedules.md)__                     | tell the Prefect API how to create new flow runs for you automatically on a specified cadence.           |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| __[Schedules](schedules.md)__                     | Tell the Prefect API how to create new flow runs for you automatically on a specified cadence.           |
```

__[Logging](logs.md)__

> Prefect enables you to log a variety of useful information about your flow and task runs

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Log a variety of useful information about your flow and task runs on the server.
```
